## Terminologies
### Horse Terminologies
1. Stallion - matured male horse (breeding and work)
2. Mare - matured female
3. Colt - young male
4. Filly - young female
5. Gelding - castrated young male
6. Ridgling - stallion with one or both testes that haven't descended to scrotal sac
	- failure of the descent of the testes from the abdomen to the scrotal sac will make problems as the abdominal temperature is higher and the testes will not be capable of producing viable sperm cells. 
	- If remain in abdomen, it will be known as a foreign body
		- should be surgically removed
7. Foal - young horse of either sex
8. Foaling - parturition in horse (giving birth in horses)
9. Yeldmare - dry mare (does not lactate anymore)
10. Stag - castrated matured male

### Cattle Terminologies
1. Bull - matured male
2. Cow - matured female
3. Bull calf - young male
4. Heifer - young female
5. Steer/bullock - castrated young male
6. Free martin - a sterile female ox is born twin to a male ox
	- in human beings the female twin to a male twin is not sterile
7. Calf - young cattle of either sex
8. Calving - parturition in cattle
9. Beef - meat of matured cattle
10. Veal - meat of young cattle

### Carabao Terminologies
- same terms with cattle but add cara prefix
1. Carabull - matured male
	- often farmers prefer the male to work in the fields
2. Caracow - mature female
3. Caraheifer - young female
4. Carasteer- castrated young male
5. Caracalf - young carabao of either sex
6. Caracalving - parturition in carabao
7. Carabeef - meat of matured carabao
8. Caraveal - meat of young carabao

### Sheep Terminologies
1. Ram - matured male
2. Ewe - matured female
3. Lamb - young of either sex
4. Lambing - parturition of sheep
5. Wether sheep - castrated young male
6. Stag - castrated mature male
7. Wool - hair covering of sheep
8. Shearing - clipping of fleecce
9. Lambchop - meat of young
10. Mutton - meat of matured sheep

### Goat Terminologies
- before known as poor man's cow
- not considered the poor man's cow any more, we import goats

1. Buck or Billy Goat - matured male 
2. Doe or Nanny Goat - matured female
3. Kid - young of either sex
4. Kidding - parturition in goats
5. Wether - castrated young male
6. Stag - castrated mature male
7. Chevon - meat of goats
8. Browse plants - shrubs of trees nibbled by goats
	- goats are considered a voracious animal
		- will eat anything
9. Tethering - act of restraining an animal with a rope or chain
	- any animal

### Swine Terminologies
1. Boar - matured male for breeding
2. Junior boar - young male
3. Sow - matured female that has given birth
4. Gilt - young female that has not yet given birth
5. Suckling - young pig from birth up to weaning
6. Barrow - castrated young male
7. Stag - castrated matured male
8. Farrowing - parturition
	- separate farrowing pen for sows whtat will be giving birth
9. Pork - meat of pig
10. Litter - group of pigs born in one farrowing
11. Litter size - the number of pigs in one litter
12. Colostrum - first milk of dam hours after giving birth
	- same in human beings and other animals
	- has antibodies
13. Meconium - first fecal matter of newborn suckling
	- same in human beings and other animals
	- sometimes inside the womb the fetus has already released the meconium
		- harmful for mother

### Rabbit Terminologies
1. Buck
2. Doe
3. Bunny
4. Kindling
5. Lapan - meat
	- sometimes meat of castrated male rabbit
	- to reduce gaminess
6. Hutch

### Poultry Terminologies
#### Chicken
1. Rooster or cock - matured male
2. Hen - matured female
3. Cockerel - young male
4. Pullet - young female
5. Straight run chicks - young chicks of either sex
6. Broiler - type of chicken raised for meat
7. Layer - type of chicken raised for egg
8. Fryer - chicken harvested at 1 kg or less
9. Incubation - process of hatching fertile eggs
10. Brooding - providing heat to newly hatched chicks
	- in large farms we do it by light bulb (artificial)
	- free-range/backyard farming - mother hen gives heat to chicks
11. Oviposition - act of laying eggs
12. Threading - act of mating in fowls
13. Caponization - removal of testis
14. Poulardization - Removall of ovary
15. Dubbing - removal of comb
16. Debeaking - removal of upper portion of beak to prevent cannibalism
17. Dewattling - removal of wattle

#### Duck 
1. Drake - matured male
2. Hen - matured female
3. Duckling - young of either sex

#### Goose
1. Gander - matured male
2. Hen - matured female
3. Gosling - young of either sex

#### Swan
1. Cob - matured male
2. Pen - matured female
3. Cygnet - young of either sex

#### Turkey
1. Tom or Gobbler - matured male
2. Hen - matured female
3. Poult - young of either sex

#### Pigeon
1. Cock - matured male
2. Hen - matured female
3. Squab - young/meat

#### Guinea fowl
1. Keets - young of either sex