## Procedure for Online
1. Grind the banana, strawberry, or mung beans using mortar and pestle or blender
2. Add 1/8 tsp of salt and 200mL cold distilled water
3. Mix until it is well-blended. Add 30mL of liquid soap then set aside for 5-10 minutes
4. Strain the mixture into another container using a coffee filter or colander. Discard the solid particles
5. Add 20mL of pinapple juice. Stir gently
6. Tilt the container then slowly add the cold alcohol
7. Look for clumps of white stringy stuff where the water and alcohol layers meet. Use a skewer or toothpick to collect the DNA.'

## Procedure for Onsite
**Preparation of Sample for DNA Extraction**
1. Using a scale and watch glass ~30g of pre-measured chicken liver is placed into a blender/mortar
2. Using a scale and watchglass, ~5g of pre-measured salt is placed into the mortar
3. Using distilled water at room temp, 400mL of water is placed into the mortar
4. The contents are then grinded together to extract the DNA
**DNA Precipitation and Isolation**
1. Using a 100mL beaker, collect 20mL of the liver solution
2. Use a pre-cut piece of cheesecloth placed into a funnel and a 250mL beaker; slowly pour the liver solution through the cheesecloth so that the filtrate collects inside the 250mL beaker in order to get rid of the undesirable tissues from the blending. Once filtered, remove funnel and discar dthe cheesecloth in the trash.
3. Using a dropper, add aboutt 10-20 drops of the liquid detergent to the 250mL beaker with the liver filtrate. Using a stirring rod, slowly stir the mixture for about 1 minute (try to prevent suds); then let the mixture sit for about 5 minutes.
4. Add 3 heaping pinches of meat tenderizer containing the necessary enzymes (bromelain or papain) to the 250mL beaker containing the filtered/soapy liver solution. Meat tenderizer enzymes help to cut the proteins away fromt he DNA. Using a stirring rod, stir the mixture vigorously for 30 seconds. Let the mixture sit for about 10 minutes
5. Label your test tubes. Pour the mixture from the 250mL beaker carefully into different test tubes.
6. Tilt your test tube and slowly add 8 dropers full (press the bulb on the dropper in and release) of cool isopropyl alcohol into and along the side of the tube. Hold the test tube in your hand without disturbing the solution. The DNA shouls slowly appear in the "alcoholic window" within minutes as a "lightly tan colored cloud" of molecules (make note of what DNA looks like)
7. Place your test tube in the designated area and then clean, dry, and put away any materials