## Diagnostic Test
1. The following are Marks of the Church except:
	- One
	- Catholic
	- **Roman**
	- Holy
2. What was the first miracle of Jesus?
	- Raising of Lazarus
	- Multiplication of loaves and fish
	- **Changing water into wine**
3. The dogma of the Immaculate Conception means that:
	- **Mary was conceived without sin**
	- Mary’s original sin was removed prior to her birth
	- Jesus was conceived without original sin in Mary’s womb.
4. What power was given by our Lord exclusively to St. Peter?
	* The power to forgive
	* **The power of the keys**
	* The power to loose and to bind
5. What is the greatest title of the Blessed Virgin Mary?
	- **Mother of God**
	- Queen of Heaven and Earth
	- Immaculate Conception
6. What prayer summarizes all our beliefs?
	- **the Creed**
	- the Lord’s Prayer
	- the Glory Be
7. How did the Apostles pass their apostolic authority and power to men of succeeding generations?
	- **Laying on of Hands**
	- Preaching of the Word
	- Appointing Ministers
8. What liturgical season begins with Ash Wednesday?
	- Advent
	- **Lent**
	- Easter
9. Who is the patron saint of the Philippines?
	- Sto. Nino
	- **Our Lady, the Immaculate Conception**
	- St. Lorenzo Ruiz
	- St. Pedro Calungsod
10. The means by which a person is reborn and incorporated into God’s people.
	- **Baptism**
	- Confirmation
	- Eucharist
11. Who are the rightful successors of the Apostles?
	- All Christians 
	- Priests
	- **Bishops**
12. True or False: There are eight (8) Gifts of the Holy Spirit.
	* **False**
13. In the Old Testament, what was the most important role of the prophets?
	- to offer sacrifice
	- to interpret dreams
	- **to call people to a change of heart**
	- to foretell the future
14. The solemn vow of a priest is never to disclose to anyone at any circumstances whatever is revealed to him by a penitent in confession
	- the secrecy of confession 
	- the silence of confession
	- t**he seal of confession**
15. What are faith, hope and charity called?
	- **Theological virtues**
	- Human virtues
	- Cardinal virtues
16. The Bishop of this diocese is responsible for keeping the unity of the Universal Church.
	- Manila
	- Jerusalem
	- **Rome**
17. The following sacraments can only be received once except?
	- Baptism
	- **Matrimony**
	- Holy Orders
	- Confirmation
18. What is the most important feast for Christians?
	- **Easter**
	- Christmas
	- Pentecost
19. The following are Gifts of the Holy Spirit except:
	- **Peace**
	- Wisdom
	- Piety 
	- Understanding
20. The following sacraments are called the sacrament of initiation except for?
	- Baptism
	- Confirmation
	- **Reconciliation**