## How do we consume?
- Rational
- Impulsive
- Practical

### What are your considerations when you buy things?
- Local or imported?
- Expensive or cheap?
- Branded or not?


### Material things are correlated with self-identity
- we always think of what we want to purchase or have
- Those who are not as privileged may not be able to let go of things easily
		- They may not be able to get it again
	- Those who are rich can easily let things go because they can buy it again
- "Material things have a symbolic function of your self"
- Ex. When we eat somewhere we take pictures of the place, the food, the people we're with
	- why? 
		- we want others to know where we are
		- the things that we have
- Ex. People who want to be called accdg. to their degree (PhD, Doctor, etc.)

### Is it bad to have material things with me? 
- Is it bad that I post pictures of where I am?
- Probably really based on intention
	- Some people base everything about themselves in material things
- very difficult to draw the line
- Money can't buy happiness -> but it can 
	- Getting a car vs. using public transport
	- an expensive boot that lasts a long time vs a cheap boot that lasts only a short while
- Sir doesn't believe that having material possessions are bad, but that there's a balance to everything
	- We have different selves that we should also think of
	- Focus on too much material things you forget your other selves
	- You have money but no friends for example

### Why consume? Why acquire material things?
