## Reflection of the Video
Existentialism is a philosophical movement that emerged in the 20th century that mostly centers on the analysis of one's individual existence in this universe. Nietzsche and other existentialists focused on the subjective human experience as a reaction to the philosophy of "Rationalism".

In the video, to become who you want to be there are 4 Steps/Ways to do so: 
1. Don't follow the herd mentality
2. Embrace the difficulty of self-discovery
3. Say Yes to what gives you meaning
4. Find your true values

All of these are predicated on one's self-reflection and analysis. To not follow the herd means to know what path you want to go on and to forge your own way; to embrace self-discovery is to go on a journey of self-discovery; to say yes to what gives you meaning you must first know what that is; and to find your true values you must search deep in yourself.

Nietzsche wants one to excel and be happy on their own terms - even creating a term for a s`uperhuman that exists outside of societal norms, creating the ature of their own existence - and one cannot do so without pursuing the understanding of the self.

## Expectations of this Course
I loved Philo in my old school, and to have a course that is more focused on self-discovery and how to better know oneself, to better see what path would make myself feel fulfilled and happy is something that I appreciate. It feels like an extension of my life-coach. I feel that this course will enable me to make better decisions as to how I want to live my life.

