One of the most important questions of our lives, of our history of human creativity,

0:05

of philosophy is how we can find ourselves, how we define our values and how ultimately

0:13

we can find meaning in our lives.

0:15

In order to answer such questions, we dive deep into the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche,

0:21

who is one of the greatest thinkers of all time and a precursor of existentialism.

0:27

He was famously known for his unconventional ideas about morality and religion and in spite

0:33

of his controversial work, he proved to be a very deep thinker, showing great insights

0:39

into the true nature of human psychology, writing guidelines relating to how individuals

0:44

can shape their future by taking responsibility for who they are.

0:50

Nietzsche wrote several books, and his teachings have shaped the lives of many people; from

0:55

psychologists to poets, dancers to social revolutionaries.

1:00

According to Nietzsche, finding yourself is one of the most fundamental endeavors of your

1:05

life and so here are four steps, inspired by the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche,

1:11

which you can take from, to help you get closer to finding yourself and becoming who you truly

1:16

want to become.

1:18

01.

1:19

Don’t follow the herd mentality Nietzsche says “What we’ve called universal

1:27

values, what we have called truth, has always only ever been the personal expressions of

1:33

those who promoted them.”

1:35

Nietzsche believed a rigid societal code creates what he called the “herd mentality.”

1:42

Like a herd of animals, a herd mentality aims towards sameness, comfort and the preservation

1:48

of its population.

1:49

Similarly, the “moral code” of society has been fabricated by individuals and then

1:55

imposed on other people so that society can have control over human behavior.

2:01

Although that can protect us from certain extreme human behaviors, it also limits our

2:08

individuality and creativity.

2:10

Not only that; but the strict dogmatic judgment of human behavior can even make some individuals

2:17

more rebellious, resulting in extreme antisocial attitudes and - even worse - actions.

2:25

If these dictatorial boundaries and rules become tyrannical and unreasonably harsh,

2:30

the rebellious response can often be equally harsh.

2:35

If the moral code of society is flexible enough, then the people who have opposing views do

2:41

not have to be particularly forceful to make the change that they want to see in the world.

2:47

In real life, more often than not, it’s the case that morality is preached in a very

2:52

strict way.

2:53

It is not only that the societal, religious and educational structures present it that

2:59

way.

3:00

It is also the attitude of the majority of people that do not want to stand out from

3:05

the group in fear of being rejected.

3:08

Therefore, every person that stands out "too much", according to the representatives of

3:13

those groups, is someone that seems terrifying and dangerous.

3:17

It is a well-known fact that people are afraid of the unknown and that is perfectly mirrored

3:22

in this dynamic.

3:24

This can be seen in our everyday lives.

3:27

Whether it’s the middle ages or the modern day world, this dynamic is always present.

3:33

Whether it’s Galileo being killed for thinking outside the box, or at school when your classmates

3:38

ridiculed you or some other student for being different and standing out, it’s all cut

3:44

from the same cloth.

3:46

The herd consists of people that have amputated their creativity dreams and goals and are

3:53

feeling insecure and even threatened by everyone that exhibits those qualities.

3:58

Those people are afraid of change, afraid of admitting to themselves that some of their

4:04

potential has not been fully realized.

4:07

Although that realization is scary, an individualistic and driven person must not let themselves

4:13

be dragged down by other people’s mistakes in life.

4:17

Instead, you need to go your own way, leave the herd behind and then shine a light so

4:23

bright that it can’t be ignored.

4:26

You can start by questioning and silencing those negative voices that you internalized

4:31

when you were young.

4:33

Whether it’s a parent, a harsh teacher, a narcissistic partner, it doesn’t matter...Whoever

4:39

told you that you can’t do things that you would want to, probably told you that because

4:43

they were afraid of your success, because it would expose everything that is bad about

4:48

them.

4:49

So they wanted to limit your individuality and pull you back into the herd.

4:54

Also, being strong minded and courageous helps you withstand the frightening feeling of stepping

5:00

out of your comfort zone, since it’s an integral part of becoming who you really are.

5:06

2.

5:08

Embrace the difficulty of self-discovery In the words of Nietzsche: “No price is

5:15

too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself.”

5:19

Our instinctive and intuitive reaction is to evade all pain and suffering.

5:26

The technology and the easiness of achieving everything has made us ungrateful and we have

5:31

forgotten that suffering is an integral part of life.

5:35

However, according to Nietzsche, it's only when we are willing to face the challenges

5:39

of life that we are spiritually growing.

5:42

In 1873, when he was 29 years old, Nietzsche addressed this fundamental question of how

5:49

we find ourselves in a beautiful essay titled “Schopenhauer as Educator”.

5:55

In this essay, he argued that if someone wishes to be somebody in this life, to maximize their

6:01

potential, they need to take the difficult path, which often leads to isolation.

6:07

Being a loner is not easy, but this is one of the prices someone must pay for the privilege

6:14

of owning themselves.

6:16

To keep yourself from being overwhelmed by the tribe, you must distance yourself from

6:21

others, you need to strive to be free and this might lead to severe difficulties in

6:27

your life.

6:28

You should refuse taking an easy path and you should decide to embark in the quest for

6:33

gaining your freedom to be yourself, no matter how frightening it might be.

6:38

To be free means also to be free from all physiological and psychological needs, in

6:44

other words, to not let them drive you, but for you to drive them instead.

6:49

For example, whenever you feel an emotional urge to do something, like complaining to

6:54

somebody in a very passionate way, you must try to become first conscious of this impulse

7:01

and then decide if you should act upon it or not.

7:04

Nietzsche’s philosophy on this point is somehow similar to many modern-day motivational

7:10

gurus and ‘thought-leaders’, but the similarity is only on the surface.

7:14

If motivational gurus focus on self-development mostly in order to achieve worldly success

7:20

and a fulfilled life on a material and relational level, Nietzsche goes deeper.

7:26

For him, the fight is an inner fight, the struggle is to find himself and this quest

7:32

is a much more difficult quest, requiring a very different kind of sacrifice.

7:37

For example, if a motivational guru teaches you how to be more confident in order to become

7:43

popular and attract investors for your business, Nietzsche teaches you to first analyze the

7:48

primary root of your desire to be confident and, usually, you’ll find it is just the

7:53

desire to impress other people such as your loved ones and your friends, or to prove a

7:58

point about yourself to society in general.

8:01

A simple analysis might make you give up this desire and focus more on what really matters

8:07

in your life, on much deeper issues, like self-discovery.

8:10

And this endeavor might make you a loner.

8:15

Not accepting to compromise yourself can very well put you in conflict with many people.

8:21

It means changing your lifestyle, it means giving up friendships or other types of relationships,

8:27

to look deep into your fears, to analyze your deepest emotions, your darkness and to rise

8:33

above them.

8:35

You have to break down the chains of opinion and fear.

8:39

Nietzsche encourages us to "challenge our own demons", but you should not cast them

8:44

out, as, beyond them, there is a deep meaning which you should try to understand.

8:49

You need to get out there in the world, do things, experience different temptations,

8:54

but be always present with your entire consciousness, and, in the end, emerge as an individual with

9:03

a distinct strength of character and a much richer inner nature.

9:08

If you don’t go out and experience life first hand in a fully aware state, you cannot

9:13

claim you have lived your life.

9:16

How far you can go depends on how much you are willing to pay for that.

9:21

To reach the state of self-ownership and to avoid going through life in a meaningless

9:25

way, without direction, you must learn how to find your inner genius.

9:30

To get in touch with your inner genius, you must walk a path no one has walked before,

9:35

as you are unique and no one can walk that path on your behalf.

9:42

Finding yourself is finding your uniqueness, that unique set of values and things you truly

9:48

love and which represent you.

9:51

3.

9:53

Say yes to what gives you meaning To quote Nietzche “He who has a why, can

9:59

bear almost any how” Nietzsche’s philosophy proposes that we

10:04

say yes to whatever gives us meaning in our own lives - the things we find value in personally.

10:12

In ages past, the meaning of everything was assured by God.

10:16

However, according to Nietzsche, in an increasingly secular and scientific society, one can no

10:22

longer turn to religion to find meaning.

10:25

He found this concerning, as the typical person would be driven to nihilism, meaning general

10:31

apathy and an unwillingness to find meaning in life, without help.

10:36

So he offers us three solutions that we, as individuals, can try to use to find meaning

10:42

in our lives.

10:44

His first suggestion was to replace religion with philosophy, art, music, literature, theater,

10:51

and other parts of the humanities to provide similar benefits.

10:55

The humanities offer us the ability to contextualize our sufferings, our efforts, and a chance

11:01

to see our lives as not so different from those around us.

11:05

They can offer insights into how we might tackle problems we must all face.

11:10

However it is important that we see them as a tool for living and not just as an academic

11:16

study; reading history not just for the facts, but for what those facts tell us - seeing

11:22

them as a way to edify yourself, or watching Tragic plays to see and comprehend the beauty

11:28

in sad events, not just the entertainment.

11:32

If humanities do not interest you, then Nietzsche suggests a second option of becoming an Übermensch.

11:40

The Übermensch is a superhuman that creates his own meaning and values without reference

11:45

to outside influences.

11:47

Such an individual can overcome the problem of the meaning of life by simply inventing

11:52

his own meaning and taking full responsibility for it.

11:57

According to Nietzsche, only a few men came close to being an Ubermensch, and they were

12:02

Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonapart, The Buddha and Goethe.

12:06

For us humans, we can hope to find some meaning in looking inward and evaluating what things

12:13

we really value and what things we only say we like because society tells us to.

12:19

Nietzsche sees the psychological evolution of humanity as an ever-advancing story, and

12:25

one which we should take a part in.

12:28

If becoming a superhuman isn’t something you value, then Nietzsche suggests another

12:32

method to find meaning, which is loving your life, no matter what it has in it.

12:38

Amor Fati, the love of fate, is one of Nietzsche’s most interesting ideas and one which can offer

12:44

us a great deal of solace when we most need it.

12:48

To love your fate is to know that everything that has happened in your life, the good,

12:53

the bad, and indeed the ugly, has contributed to who you are and what you are doing at this

12:58

very moment.

13:00

Trying to create yourself will lead to some failures, but embracing those failures alongside

13:05

your successes can help re-spark the love of life and can help you see the meaning of

13:11

it even in the worst moments.

13:14

4.

13:16

Find your true values Nietzsche asks us “What, if some day or

13:21

night a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you:

13:28

This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable

13:33

times more … Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon

13:39

who spoke thus?”

13:42

Nietzsche believed that we need to create our own values to lift the ‘Greatest Weight’.

13:47

The ‘Greatest Weight’ is a metaphorical situation put forth by Nietzsche which represents

13:52

the feeling that crushes you into repeating past mistakes, because of the unevaluated

13:57

values you adopt from your herd.

14:00

The goal of this concept is to make you ask yourself – is what you are doing truly meaningful,

14:07

or are you just acting out what your herd thinks is right?

14:11

If you think that the things you are doing are worth repeating eternally, that you can

14:15

be sure you are fully individuated, you will have enough courage and strength to lift "the

14:20

greatest weight".

14:22

If you do not think that the way you have been living is worth repeating innumerably,

14:26

chances are, you haven’t formed your own values and you are still a slave to your society

14:31

and worse yet, to yourself.

14:35

If you find yourself repeating the same mistakes you always have and are left feeling crushed,

14:41

the chances are, you haven’t reevaluated the morals imposed on you by your herd.

14:46

Thus, you are not a fully developed individual, yet.

14:52

Once you reevaluate your moral landscape, only then "the greatest weight" can be lifted.

14:59

How many times have you found yourself turning a blind eye to someone gaslighting you, just

15:04

because you didn’t want to confront the person?

15:06

Or how many times have you heard your friend or yourself saying "m with the identical person

15:13

with identical problems".

15:16

If you were your own, with your own set of morals, you wouldn’t find yourself staying

15:21

in toxic relationships just because it’s "the right thing to do".

15:25

You would know that it’s just you just trying to be a good person by society’s standards

15:30

and that's not worth it.

15:32

Nietzsche suggests that “in every little thing ask yourself, do you desire this once

15:38

more and innumerable times over?”

15:40

If the answer is no, then you need to change yourself and reevaluate your values, then

15:46

and only then the weight can be lifted.

15:50

True good lies beyond standard definitions of good and evil.

15:56

Most of us live our lives in our self-imposed jail.

16:00

Our jail cells are blandly pre-subscribed by social beliefs that captivate the wildness

16:06

and individualism of the human spirit.

16:09

Many of us submit to the comfort of this cage.

16:13

Nietzsche recognized that we can escape our enclosure of forced beliefs and awaken ourselves

16:18

to what we value personally.

16:20

To break free and to create your own values and meaning in life, you have to undergo this

16:26

transformation, you have to go through this rebellious phase.

16:31

You need to have the courage to break the chains of tradition, of religion, of society

16:36

and perhaps you even have to distance yourself from several people in your life.

16:41

It doesn’t need to be a violent and sudden reaction, it can - and should - be a smart,

16:47

calm, but definitive one.

16:50

You can start with making a list of everything and everyone you think limits your freedom

16:54

to be yourself.

16:56

It can be an unfortunate unwritten rule at your workplace, it could be your spouse who

17:01

always tries to control and correct your behavior, or it may be your friends or your parents

17:07

who criticize you when you behave in a particular way.

17:09

Once you’ve done this, try to think of possible strategies of how to change that situation:

17:16

maybe you could have a discussion with your spouse in which you can talk about the issue,

17:20

perhaps you talk to your colleagues or supervisors in a meeting at work regarding the problems

17:24

you are experiencing, how it affects you and how you would like it to change, or you could

17:30

find new friends who can appreciate you better.

17:33

When you feel overtaken by “the greatest weight,” you don’t need to hide your aspirations,

17:40

but instead you need to breakout from your self-made herd-based prison and chase after

17:46

the dreams that give meaning to your life.

17:51

If you enjoyed this video, please do make sure to check out the full Philosophies for

17:55

Life channel and for more videos to help you find success and happiness using ancient philosophical

18:00

wisdom, don’t forget to subscribe.

18:02

Thanks so much for watching.