## Quiz 3
### History of the Church
1. This means fellowship, sharing of life and self
	- Kerygma
	- Didache
	- Leitourgia
	- **Koinonia**
2. This refers to service, the central theme of the teachigns of Christ and of the Apostles
	- Kerygma
	- Didache
	- Diakonia
	- Koinonia
3. He was the first apostle to be martyred
	- Peter
	- **James**
	- John
	- Paul
4. The first martyr of Christianity
	- Peter
	- Paul
	- **Stephen**
5. They are the presiders of the Eucharistic Celebrations and guard the church against "false teachers"
	- Episkopos and Presbyters
	- Religious and Nuns
	- Preachers and Homilists
6. He started the general persecution of the early Church
	- Diocletian
	- **Nero**
	- Constantine
	- Theodosius
7. He divided the Roman Empire into East and West in the year 292
	- Nero 
	- Theodosius
	- Maximian
	- **Diocletian**
8. He transferred the capital of the empire from Rome to Byzantium
	- Nero
	- **Constantine**
	- Theodosius
	- Gratian
9. He abolished the priveleges enjoyed by the pagan priests
	- **Gratian**
	- Theodosius
	- Nero
	- Diocletian
10. He is the most important figure in monasticism
	- St. Anthony
	- **St. Benedict**
	- St. Scholastica
	- St. Therese
11. They are the helpers or servants within the community
	- Priests
	- **Deacons**
	- Bishop
12. It is the most excellent manifestation of Koinonia
	- Didache
	- Kerygma
	- Diakonia
	- Leitourgia
13. A great number of Christians were arrested and many were put to death after being subject to the cruelest of tortures
	- **Nero**
	- Theodosius
	- Diocletian
14. He urged convocation of the Council of Nicaea in the year 325 in order to help the Church overcome the Arian heresy and gave rise to the Nicene Creed
	- Gratian
	- Licinus
	- **Constantine**
15. It sets the stage for opening Christianity's doors to those of any Nationality or Culture
	- Council of Trent 
	- **Council of Jerusalem**
	- Council of Nicaea
	- Council of Chalcedon
16. The freedom of religion to Christians and even to all human beings
	- Edict of Alexandria
	- Edict of Rome
	- Edict of Milan
	- Edict of Byzantium
17. He ruled that heresy was a crime punishable by law
	- Gratian
	- Nero
	- **Theodosius**
	- Constantine
18. Exists to preserve both the spirit of Christianity and the ancient wisdom of civilization
	- Charity
	- **Monasticism**
	- Austerity
	- Prayer
19. He built a monastery of Monte Cassino. His rule became the standards for monastic life for centuries
	- St. Anthonmy
	- **St. Benedict**
	- St. Francis
	- St. Dominic
20. He made Christianity the official religion of the state in the year 391
	- Gratian
	- Constantine
	- Nero
	- **Theodosius**