## Salvation History Quiz
1. True or False: Salvation history is said to be progressive and gradually unfolding
	- **True**
	- False
2. True or False: The points in Salvation History are glued together by God's covenant
	- **True**
	- False
3. True or False: Covenant is a contract freely entered into by two parties which is bindign and each is expected to be faithful and assume responsibilities and enjoy privileges
	- **True**
	- False
4. True or False: The symbols in each covenant transformed from person to object
	- True
	- **False**
5. True or False: As Abraham fulfills salvation history, he also perfects the covenant, making it universal, eternal, and permanent
	- True
	- **False**
6. True or False: The covenant with Jacob after the flood gives expression tot he principle of the divine economy toward the nations
	- **True**
	- False
7. True or False: Salvation is a gift but we also need to do something to receive it, nourish it, and nurture it.
	- **True**
	- False
8. True or False: A covenant is an expression of how two people would rather live than to break an agreement between them
	- True
	- **False**
9. True or False: Every time we celebrate Mass, we reenact, through the power of the Holy Spirit, Christ's ultimate sacrifice
	- **True**
	- False
10. True or False: As Christians we are called to strengthen the fourfold mission within the socio-economic, religious-cultural and political realms of our lives
	- True
	- **False**
11. If Abram is to Exalted Father then Abraham is to (     )
	- Father of Fortitude
	- **Father of Multitude**
	- Father of Solitude
12. If Sarah is to Mother of Many then Sarai is to (     )
	- Duchess
	- **Princess**
	- Sister of Many
13. If Moses is to Zipporah then Isaac is to (    )
	- **Rebecca** 
	- Leah
	- Deborah
14. If Isaac is to Sarah then Jesus is to (     )
	- Leah
	- Rebecca
	- **Mary**
15. If Abram is to Abraham then Jacob is to (     )
	 - **Israel**
	 - Joseph
	 - Hosea
16. If Jesus is to Beatitudes and Law of Love then Moses is to (    )
	- **Decalogue**
	- Dialogue with God
	- Prophet
17. If Leah is to Reuben then Rachel is to (     )
	- Esau
	- **Joseph**
	- Jacob
18. If Deborah is to Judge then Hosea is to (     ) 
	- **Prophet**
	- Chosen One
	- Sheperd
19. If Jesus si the Son of God then (    ) is to Son of Abraham
	- **Isaac**
	- Esau
	- Jacob
20. If Esau is to Hairy then (     ) is to Heel Clinger
	- Isaac
	- Joseph
	- **Jacob**
21. Identify who is being described by the following statement: The prophet who became famous for rendering a judgment under a palm tree in Ephraim
	- **Deborah**
	- Gideon
	- Samson
22. Identify who is being described by the following statement: The prophet who was a Nazarite consecrated to God
	- Deborah
	- Gideon
	- **Samson**
23. Identify who is being described by the following statement: The prophet who defeated the Canaanites
	- **Deborah**
	- Gideon
	- Samson
24. Identify who is being described by the following statement: The prophet who defeated the Midianites with an army of only 300 soldiers
	- Deborah
	- **Gideon**
	- Samson
25. Identify who is being described by the following statement: The prophet who defeated the Philistines by destroying their temple
	- Deborah
	- Gideon
	- **Samson**
26. Identify who is being described by the following statement: He defeated the Philistine giant, Goliath
	- Saul
	- **David**
	- Solomon
27. Identify who is being described by the following statement: He was known for his extraordinary wisdom
	- Saul
	- David
	- **Solomon**
28. Identify who is being described by the following statement: He lost YHWH's favor because of his pride and disobedience
	- **Saul**
	- David
	- Solomon
29. Identify who is being described by the following statement: He was known for bringing Israel to its Golden Age
	- Saul
	- **David**
	- Solomon
30. Identify who is being described by the following statement: He was the one who ordered the construction of the Temple fo Jerusalem where they kept the Arc of the Covenant
	- Saul
	- David
	- **Solomon**
31. Identify who is being described by the following statement: He was known as the suffering prophet
	- Amos
	- Hosea
	- **Jeremiah**
32. Identify who is being described by the following statement: His name means "YHWH saves"
	- Amos
	- **Hosea**
	- Jeremiah
33. Identify who is being described by the following statement: Social Justice is the core of his prophetic teachings
	- **Amos**
	- Hosea
	- Jeremiah
34. Identify who is being described by the following statement: He shows the mercy of God who welcomes back his bride after her time of unfaithfulness
	- Amos
	- **Hosea**
	- Jeremiah
35. Identify who is being described by the following statement: For 50 years he was rejected, imprisoned, beated, and persecuted.
	- Amos
	- Hosea
	- **Jeremiah**
36. Which DOES NOT BELONG to the Group?
	- Patriarchal 
	- Apostolic
	- Prophetic
	- Prehistoric
37. Which DOES NOT BELONG to the Group? (Covenant Symbols)
	- Decalogue
	- Rainbow
	- Circumcision
	- **Lamb**
38. Which DOES NOT BELONG to the Group? (Three Divine Activities)
	- **Blessing**
	- Promise
	- Election
	- Covenant
39. Which DOES NOT BELONG to the Group? (Functions of a Judge)
	- Priestly
	- Executive
	- **Legislative**
	- Military
40. Which DOES NOT BELONG to the Group? (Threefold Mission of Christ)
	- Priestly
	- **Judiciary**
	- Prophetic
	- Kingly