May 23, 2022 - Monday
## The Olympic Principles and Traditions
1. Olympic Creed
	- "The most important thing in the Olympic Games is not to win but to take part, just as the most important thing in life is not the triumph but the struggle. The essential thing is not to have conquered but to have fought well."
2. Olympic Motto
	- Citius, Altius, Fortius, which means "Swifter, Higher, Stronger."
	- The motto, introduced in 1924, is meant to spur the athletes to embrace the Olympic spirit and perform to the best of their abilities.
3. Olympic Symbol
	- The official symbol of the modern OlympicGames is five colored rings linked together
	- These rings represent the continents of North and South America, Africa, Asia, Australia, and Europe.
	- Symbolize the uniting of athletes from all over the world
	- The Olympic flag, first used at the Antwerp Games in 1920, has the Olympic symbol in the center of a white field.
4. Olympic Flame
	- The Olympic flame symbolizes the continuity between the ancient and modern Games.
	- Modern Games are opened officially by runners carrying a burning torch brought from the Temple of Zeus at Olympia. Except where travel by ship or plane is necessary, the torch is carried overland from Greece by a relay of athletes.
	- The torch is used to light the flame in a giant torch, or cauldron, which burns for the duration of the Games.
	- The flame was first used at the 1928 Games in Amsterdam.
5. Olympic Oath
	- "In the name of all the competitors I promise that we shall take part in these Olympic Games, respecting and abiding by the rules which govern them, committing ourselves to a sport without doping and without drugs, in the true spirit of sportsmanship, for the glory of sport and the honor of our teams."
	- The Olympic Oath was introduced for the 1920 Games and first sworn by Victor Boin.
6. Olympic Movement
	- A philosophy that advocates using sport not just as a physical activity but also as a means of educating people
	- According to this philosophy, the good sportsmanship, sense of fair play, and respect for fellow athletes that is developed through participation in sports teaches men and women of different races, religions, and nationalities to work peacefully together in competition toward common goals.
7. Olympic Awards
	- The winner receives a diploma with a gold medal as first-place prize
	- A diploma and a silver medal are awarded for second place.
	-  A diploma and bronze medal for third place.
	- At the awards ceremony, the three medal winners stand on platforms as their medals are placed around their necks.
	- The national anthem of the gold medalist's country is played or the Olympic Hymn. Athletes placing fourth, fifth, and sixth receive diplomas. Each participant receives a commemorative medal.