## Origins and History
- The Olympics started as afestival honoring the Greek god Zeus.
- 776 BC (inception date) the start of Olympics and formation of greek calendar
- Olympic contest for music, singing, and poetry
- First event was the 200-yard dash
- Over time, new exciting contests were added such as boxing, chariot and mule racing, adn even a footrace!
- The pentathlon inspired world class competition, this combined running, jumping, wrestling, javelin throwing, and hurling the discus events including the pankatrion
- In 391 AD Christian Roman Emperor Theodosius banned pagan practices, so the world soon bid a fond farewell to the Olympic games.
- 1500 years later in 1896, the modern Olympic games kicked off in Athens, Greece.
- June 16, 1894 international sports congress eventually convened with delegates from Belgium, England, France, Greece, Italy, Russia, Spain, Sweden, and the United States in attendance, he advocated the revival of the Olympic Games.
- The Greeks themselves had tried to revive the Olympics by holding local athletic games in Athens during the 1800s but failed.
- In 1896 Pierre de Coubertin revived the Olympic games in Greece
- Thirteen countries competed at the Athens Games in 1896.
- Nine sports were on the agenda: cycling, fencing, gymnastics, lawn tennis, shooting, swimming, track and field, weight lifting, and wrestling.
- In 1908 the number of competitors more than quadrupled the number at Athens —from 311 to 2,082.
- 1924, a Winter Olympics was included — to be held at a separate cold-weather sports site in the same year as the Summer Games. The program that included Alpine and Nordic skiing, biathlon, ice hockey, figure skating and speed skating, bobsled, and luge.
- Today, the Summer and Winter Olympics Governed by the International Olympic committee (IOC) bring international world-class athletes together by the thousands, uniting fans by the billions for the world's foremost sporting competition.
