## Culture and Politics
### Culture
The Olympic Games have become a multi-sport event, which entertains not only athletes from different countries, but a worldwide audience numbering millions. They therefore exceed any other sports or cultural event They make mass communication between the contestants and the rest of the world possible. Social, scientific, sports-technical and political evolution has opened up great horizons for sport as a socio-cultural phenomenon, and it has become a common good.

What constitutes a landmark of today’s Olympic Games is the social communication among the youth of the world within a grandiose event. There we can see athletic mastery and a coming together of young people without regard to ideology, race and religion. This is

what makes the Games the most beautiful and most significant event. The modern Olympic Games were part of world culture and modern history.

the Olympic ideal is about celebrate the peace and a healthy mind in a healthy body, the Paralympics idea arose after the Second World War to honor the people who have got permanent disabilities on the battle fields.

### Politics
- The Olympic Games are a time when many nations come together to celebrate athleticism and mental strength. The International Olympic Committee aims to promote sport competition and education free of any discrimination, “in a spirit of friendship, solidarity and fair play.” The Olympics are a time when, supposedly, political feuds are set aside. The IOC or International Olympic Committee even promotes the concept of the Olympic truce in its charter, a policy which was observed during the ancient Olympics.
- Despite the IOC’s goals for international peace during the Games, politics have disrupted the Olympic Games throughout its history, whether through boycotts, propaganda, or protests. Here are seven instances of politics infiltrating the Olympic Games. The ideology of nationalism, which swept the world during the early 20th century, left its mark on the Olympics. Athletic nationalism was brought to a peak by Nazi Germany, which staged the 1936 Games in Berlin and used the Olympics to propagandize its cause.
- The Germans built a powerful team through nationalized training and scientific advances and dominated the Games in terms of medals won.