## [How to humor your stress](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bZMJdhe4xhQ)
- "We have gotten to a place where we don't know how to see humor in our lives."
	- we don't have people stopping by - people who provided historical references to put in books
	- we don't have meals together like we often did - talked and laughed and shared stores
- Part of understanding how to humor your stress
	- have people around to
		- guide you
		- laugh with you
		- make light of things here and there
	- instead of all the drama we go around with now
- "...in our life, we have become human doings. We're no longer human beings."
	- have to tell everybody we meet what we're doing - that we're always just so busy and it becomes like a competition
	- share physical ailments - everything hurts
- Even kids are stressed
	- kids don't know how to be kids anymore
- When we're stressed, what do we do?
	- we tell people
	- form groups - global whining groups
		- get together in offices, homes, wherever
	- before leave house, tell family - 'I'm going to be tired when I get back' - form of **pre-suffering**
- SUGGESTION: When stressed like this, give self a standing ovation
	- ask for a standing ovation. Walk in the office and ask for one for coming in. 
	- when getting home, you're going crazy with thinking about what went one while you weren't home - make a joke of it instead.
- Realize we have 60,000 thoughts that go through brain everyday
	- most are bad
	- often start day catastrophizing and awfulizing (term develiped by Dr. Albert Ellis - author of Rational Emotive Therapy)
- Only way to destress and use humor
	- move away from yourself
	- become the witness to your behavior - buddhist kind of mindset
	- think about what you're thinking about
	- In a car in traffic - asking yourself 'Where did all these cars come from' - think about why you said that - isn't it a funny question?
- "If you think the worst and get the worst - you suffer twice"
	- a lot of us actually like to suffer
	- When buddhist monks have meditated since they were children, that part of their brain is not as reactive
- There are so many ways we can get through this life and laugh
	- laugh on purpose - crack yourself up
		- have a staff-laugh at work
		- sit with friends and laugh
	- smile often
	- become the fun you're seeking
	- ANOTHER SUGGESTION
		- buy yourself a little red nose
		- try complaining with the nose on
- some people as an answer to 'it's a beautiful day today' say, 'its going to rain on friday'
	- why suffer in advance?
	- we don't have much time - we're all ging to another place. ENJOY IT
		- you don't have to be a perfectinist
		- you don't have to be a martyr
		- you don't have to be a control freak
- If nothing I've said works
	- get a whip (like for the penitensya on good friday )
	- "oh it's raining", "oh i'm so bloated", "oh i'm still married to you?" - pretends to whip self because you're so intent on suffering
- When you can laugh at yourself
	- it shows your humility
	- breeds connection to all of us because we're all vulnerable